# Google Slides: Google Slides Quiz

**URL:** https://edu.gcfglobal.org/en/googleslides/google-slides-quiz/1/
**Scraped:** 2025-06-21T10:12:02.607Z

---


Cookie settings

search menu TOPICS print English expand_more Login Join for free! Google Slides - Google Slides Quiz Back to Tutorial

Getting started with your presentation Google Slides allows you to create dynamic slide presentations. These presentations can include animation, narration, images, videos, and much more. In this lesson, you'll learn about the Google Slides interface and the basics of setting up your document, including the menu and shortcut toolbars, zoom settings, and choosing a theme. Watch the video below to learn more about using Google Slides. The Google Slides interface When you create a new presentation in Google Slides, the interface for Slides will appear. This interface displays the toolbar, along with the main view of your presentation. It allows you to create and modify slides, choose a theme, and share the presentation with others. Click the buttons in the interactive below to learn about the interface for Google Slides. Choosing a theme When you first create a new presentation, Google Slides will prompt you to choose a theme. Themes give you a quick and easy way to change the overall design of your presentation. Each theme has a unique combination of colors, fonts, and slide layouts. Select a theme from the panel on the right side of the window, and it will be applied to your entire presentation. You can choose from a variety of new themes at any time, giving your entire presentation a consistent, professional look. If you want to change your theme, you can open the Themes panel again by clicking the Theme command on the shortcut toolbar. Working with the Google Slides environment Here, we'll show you how to navigate the Google Slides environment. You'll learn how to use the menu and shortcut toolbars, zoom in and out, and play your presentation. The menu and shortcut toolbars The Google Slides interface uses a traditional menu system with a shortcut toolbar. The menus contain commands grouped by function. The shortcut toolbar has buttons for some frequently used commands. Showing and hiding the menus You can choose to minimize the menu bar to free up more space to display your slides. Click the Hide the menus command to hide the menu bar, leaving only the shortcut toolbar at the top of the window. Click it again to show the menu bar again. Zooming in and out You can zoom in and out of your presentation with the Zoom shortcut. Click Zoom on the shortcut toolbar, then move the mouse cursor over your slide. The cursor will change to a magnifying class with a plus sign inside of it. Now you can left-click to zoom in or right-click to zoom out. Press Escape on your keyboard to return your cursor to normal. Within the View drop-down menu, hover over Zoom and there you will see options to set the zoom more precisely. Playing the presentation When you are ready to show your presentation—or if you want to see what it will look like during a presentation—click the Present button to the right of the menus. You can also click the drop-down arrow for additional presentation options. Challenge! Open Google Slides and create a blank presentation. Change the presentation title from Untitled Presentation to Practice Presentation. Choose a theme for your presentation. Use the View menu to set the zoom to 50%. When you're finished, your presentation should look something like this: Note: Colors and fonts might be different. Lesson 9: Slide Basics Slide basics Every Google Slides presentation is composed of a series of slides. To begin creating a slide show, you'll need to know the basics of working with slides. You'll need to feel comfortable with tasks such as inserting a new slide, changing the layout of a slide, and arranging existing slides. Watch the video below to learn how to work with slides and layouts. Understanding slides and slide layouts When you insert a new slide, it will usually have placeholders to show you where text will be placed. Slides have different layouts for placeholders, depending on the type of information you want to include. Whenever you create a new slide, you'll need to choose a slide layout that fits your content. Creating a slide and selecting a layout Whenever you start a new presentation, it will contain one slide with the Title Slide layout. You can insert as many slides as you need from a variety of layouts. Click the drop-down arrow next to the New slide command. Choose the desired slide layout from the drop-down menu that appears. The new slide will appear. To change the layout of an existing slide, click the Layout command, then choose the desired layout. To quickly add a slide that uses the same layout as the selected slide, click the New slide command. Organizing slides Google Slides presentations can contain as many slides as you need. The Slide Navigation pane on the left side of the screen makes it easy to organize your slides. From there, you can duplicate, rearrange, and delete slides in your presentation. Duplicate slides: If you want to copy and paste a slide quickly, you can duplicate it. To duplicate slides, select the slide you want to duplicate, right-click the mouse, and choose Duplicate slide from the menu that appears. You can also duplicate multiple slides at once by selecting them first. Move slides: It's easy to change the order of your slides. Just click and drag the desired slide in the Slide Navigation pane to the desired position. Delete slides: If you want to remove a slide from your presentation, you can delete it. Simply select the slide you want to delete, then press the Delete or Backspace key on your keyboard. Customizing slide layouts Sometimes you may find that a slide layout doesn't exactly fit your needs. For example, a layout might have too many—or too few—placeholders. You might also want to change how the placeholders are arranged on the slide. Fortunately, Google Slides makes it easy to adjust slide layouts as needed. Adjusting placeholders To select a placeholder: Hover the mouse over the edge of the placeholder and click (you may need to click the text in the placeholder first to see the border). To move a placeholder: Select the placeholder, then click and drag it to the desired location. To resize a placeholder: Select the placeholder you want to resize. Sizing handles will appear. Click and drag the sizing handles until the placeholder is the desired size. You can use the corner sizing handles to change the placeholder's height and width at the same time. To delete a placeholder: Select the placeholder you want to delete, then press the Delete or Backspace key on your keyboard. Using blank slides If you want even more control over your content, you may prefer to use a blank slide, which contains no placeholders. Blank slides can be customized by adding your own text boxes, pictures, charts, and more. To insert a blank slide, click the drop-down arrow next to the New slide command, then choose Blank from the menu that appears. While blank slides offer more flexibility, keep in mind that you won't be able to take advantage of the pre-designed layouts included in each theme. Changing the theme You can quickly alter the layout and color palette of all of your slides by changing the theme of the presentation. The theme can be changed at any time. Click the Theme command on the shortcut toolbar. The Themes pane will appear. Select the desired theme. The theme will be applied to the entire presentation. To select a different background color for your slides, open the Slide menu and click Change background, then select a new color. If you select a color from the Theme palette, it will change when you select a different theme. The other colors will remain the same in any theme. Be aware that if you have moved or resized a placeholder, it won't change with the theme. To fix this, you can reapply the slide's original layout in the Layout menu. Playing your presentation Once you've arranged your slides, you may want to play your presentation. This is how you will present your slide show to an audience. Click the Present button to the right of the menus. You can also click the drop-down arrow for additional presentation options. The presentation will appear in a maximized window. A navigation bar in the lower-left corner provides you with several options for displaying your presentation. You can advance to the next slide by clicking your mouse or pressing the spacebar on your keyboard. You can also use the arrow keys on your keyboard to move forward or backward through the presentation. Press the Esc key to exit presentation mode. Challenge! Open our example file. Make sure you're signed in to Google, then click File > Make a copy. Insert a new slide. Apply the Main Point slide layout. In the placeholder, type Thank You! Resize the placeholder so it just fits the width of the text, then move the placeholder to the center of the slide. Move the slide you just created to the end of the slideshow. When you're finished, your presentation should look something like this: Lesson 10: Text Basics Text basics If you're new to Google Slides, you'll need to learn the basics of working with text. In this lesson, you'll learn how to cut, copy, paste, and format text. Entering text When you create a new slide, you can enter text in any of the placeholders on that slide. Just click the placeholder, and the insertion point should appear. Then, you can type whatever you want. You aren't confined to entering text only in the placeholders. You can also create a text box anywhere on the slide. To do this, click the text box command, then click and drag to draw the text box on the slide. Then, you can click the text box and start typing. Many presentations use bulleted or numbered lists to present individual points. The Bulleted list and Numbered list commands will appear once you select text or a placeholder. Click one of these commands to create a blank list, or select existing text first to format it as a list. There are more list styles available in the adjacent drop-down menus. The list commands only appear if you have selected a placeholder or text within a placeholder. You may need to click the More button to see all of the commands. Working with text In order to work with text effectively, you'll need to know how to select and arrange it. You can do a lot with text once you know how to select, copy and paste, and drag and drop it. To select text: Before you can move or arrange text, you'll need to select it. Click next to the text you want to select, drag the mouse over the text, then release your mouse. The text will be selected. To copy and paste text: Select the text you want to copy, then open the Edit menu and select Copy. If you want to move the text instead of duplicating it, you can use the Cut command instead of Copy. Place the insertion point where you want the text to appear. Open the Edit menu and select Paste. The copied text will appear. You can access the Cut, Copy, and Paste commands by using keyboard shortcuts. Press Ctrl+X to cut, Ctrl+C to copy, and Ctrl+V to paste. To drag and drop text: Select the text you want to move, then click and drag the text to the desired location. The text will appear in the new location. To delete text: Select the text you want to delete. Press the Delete key on your keyboard. Formatting text and adding hyperlinks Formatted text can draw your audience's attention to specific parts of a presentation and emphasize important information. In Google Slides, you have several options for adjusting your text, including size and color. Click the buttons in the interactive below to learn about the different commands for formatting text. The commands for formatting text only appear if you have selected a placeholder or text within a placeholder. You may need to click the More button to see all of the commands. Adding speaker notes You can add notes to your slides from the Notes pane. Often called speaker notes, they can help you deliver or prepare for your presentation. Just click the pane at the bottom of the window and begin typing. You can click and drag the edge of the pane to resize it. You can toggle the Notes pane on or off from the View menu. Challenge! Open our example file. Make sure you're signed in to Google, then click File > Make a copy. Select slide 14. In the placeholder that says Click to add title, enter the text Volunteer. Bold the word Volunteer and change the font color to a shade of yellow. On the right side of the slide, format the words under Opportunities: as a bulleted list. The list should start with Dog walker and end with Event coordinator. Change the font size of the word Opportunities: to 24 pt. Add a note to the slide that says Insert a link to our website. When you're finished, your slide should look something like this: Lesson 11: Adding Pictures and Shapes Adding pictures and shapes Adding pictures and shapes can make your presentations more interesting and engaging. The picture and shape tools in Google Slides also let you customize your images by cropping, reordering, changing colors, and adding other formatting. Inserting pictures You can insert a picture from a file on your computer onto any slide. Google Slides even includes tools for finding online pictures and adding screenshots to your presentation. To insert a picture: Open the Insert menu, then select Image. You can choose an image from a number of sources. In our example, we'll Search the web. The Google images search pane will appear on the right. Enter your search terms to find an image you're interested in. Click the desired image, then click Insert. The image will appear on the selected slide. Formatting pictures There are a variety of ways to format the pictures in your slide show. Google Slides has tools to resize and rotate the picture, crop the picture, adjust the image, and more. To crop an image: Select the image you'd like to crop, then click the Crop command. Cropping handles will appear around the image. Click and drag one of the handles to crop the image. Make sure the mouse is right over the black cropping handle so you don't accidentally select a resizing handle. Click the Crop command again. The image will be cropped. To crop an image to a shape: Select the image you want to crop, then click the Mask Image drop-down arrow next to the Crop command. From the drop-down menu, hover over a category; then, choose the desired shape that you want to insert. The image will appear formatted as the shape. After cropping the image to a shape, you can click the crop button again to use the cropping handles and adjust the size and proportions of the shape. Image options You can adjust an image's transparency, brightness, contrast, and more. To do this, select the image, then click Format options on the toolbar or in the Format menu. The Format options pane will open. Moving and resizing pictures To move an image: Select the image, then drag it to the desired location. To resize an image: Select the image you want to resize. Sizing handles will appear. Click and drag the sizing handles until the image is the desired size. You can use the corner sizing handles to change the image's height and width at the same time. To rotate an image: When the image is selected, click and drag the rotation handle above the image. Inserting shapes Shapes are a great way to make your presentation more interesting. Google Slides gives you a lot of different shapes to choose from, and they can be customized to suit your needs, allowing you to use your own color palette, preferences, and more. To insert a shape: Click the Shape command on the toolbar to open the drop-down menu. Hover over one of the categories, then choose a shape. Click and drag in the desired location to add the shape to the slide. In our example, we'll draw the shape on top of the robot image for now. The shape will appear on the slide. Formatting shapes In Google Slides, you can modify shapes in a variety of ways to suit your needs. Shapes can be moved and resized just like images, and they have a few other options for adjustment. Some shapes have the option to change their dimensions and proportions. To adjust the proportion of a shape, select it, then click and drag the diamond handle. You can further customize shapes by changing their fill color, line color, line weight, and line dash. Select a shape, then click one of the four shape format commands to see the menu for that option. Reordering objects In Google Slides, each slide may have multiple items, such as pictures, shapes, and text boxes. When objects are inserted into a slide, they are placed on levels according to the order in which they were inserted into the slide. In our example, we drew a teardrop shape on the top level, obscuring the robot picture behind it. We can reorder it to put it behind the other objects. To reorder an object: Select the object you want to reorder. Open the Arrange menu, select Order, then choose how you'd like to reorder the object. In our example, we'll select Send to back. The object will reorder. In our example, the shape is a nice background for the robot image. You can arrange multiple overlapping objects using the Order commands. In our example, we selected the robot image and used the Send backward command. The robot image is behind the cloud, but in front of the teardrop shape. Challenge! Open our example file. Make sure you're signed in to Google, then click File > Make a copy. Select slide 15 and resize the picture of the robot so it's as tall as the slide. Crop the robot so the robot's hands and everything below them are no longer showing. Move the robot to the lower-right part of the slide. To the left of the robot picture, insert a speech bubble shape. Hint: Speech bubbles can be found in the callout category. With the shape still selected, drag the yellow diamond handle toward the robot's mouth, then type the words Go forth and be safe! Change the font size of the text to 30 pt and the alignment of the text to center align. Change the fill color of the shape. When you're finished, your slide should look something like this: Lesson 12: Adding Transitions and Animations Adding transitions and animations Presentations don't have to be a series of static slides. You can add animations to objects on slides or transitions to entire slides. A transition can be as simple as fading to the next slide, or it can be a more flashy effect. Any object can be animated, making it move or fade in or out of the slide. Google Slides makes it easy to apply these effects to some or all of your slides, adding emphasis or polish to your presentation. Watch the video below to learn how to add transitions. Google Slides has one pane to manage all of your transitions and animations. The Motion pane will allow you to configure the transition and all animations for the current slide. Transitions and animations are best used in moderation. Adding too many of these effects can make your presentation look a little silly and can even be distracting to your audience. Consider using mostly subtle transitions and animations—or not using them at all. To add a transition: Select the desired slide, then click the Transition command on the toolbar. The Motion pane will appear. Underneath Slide Transition, open the drop-down menu; then, select a transition. The transition will be applied to the current slide. You also can adjust the speed of the transition or apply the same transition to all slides. To add an animation: Right-click the desired object, then select Animate. The Motion pane will appear. Underneath Object Animations, a default animation will be added to the selected object and displayed in the pane. Open the drop-down menu and select the desired animation. If the Motion pane is already open and you want to add more animations, you can select an object and click Add animation. You can also add multiple animations to one object. Watch the video below to learn more about using animations. Animation options By default, an effect starts playing when you click the mouse during a slide show. If you have multiple effects, you will need to click multiple times to start each effect individually. However, by changing the start option for each effect, you can have effects that automatically play after the previous effect or with the previous effect. If the object is a placeholder or text box, the By paragraph check box will be displayed. It determines if the animation is applied to the entire box or if it animates each paragraph of text in the box one at a time. You can also adjust the speed of the animation by dragging the animation speed slider. Challenge! Open our example file. Make sure you're signed in to Google, then click File > Make a copy. With the first slide selected, add a flip transition, set the speed to medium, and select Apply to all slides. Select slide 6. Delete the animation that says Fade in (on click). Select the Nice Work text box and add a spin animation. Set the animation to happen after previous at medium speed. Select the Next week, Space: The Final Exam text box. Add the animation Fly in from left and set it to happen after previous. Press the play button in the animation panel. When you're finished, your slide should look something like this: Lesson 13: Presenting Your Slide Show Presenting your slide show Once your slide show is complete, you'll need to learn how to present it to an audience. If you learn how to navigate the slide show and rehearse ahead of time, you can make your presentation smooth, engaging, and professional. Watch the video below to learn more about presenting slideshows. To start a slide show: There are several ways you can begin your presentation: Click the Present command at the top of the window to begin the presentation with the current slide. Select Present from beginning in the drop-down menu to begin the presentation from the first slide. Select Presenter view in the drop-down menu to start the slide show with Presenter view open. This is a window only visible to you that displays tools to help you with your presentation, like slide previews, notes, and running time. Navigating the presentation You can advance to the next slide by clicking your mouse or pressing the spacebar on your keyboard. You can also use the arrow keys on your keyboard to move forward or backward through the presentation. You can also hover your mouse over the bottom-left and use the commands there to navigate the presentation. Tips for presenting Before presenting your slide show, think about any preparations you need to make, like setting up the necessary equipment and rehearsing your presentation. Being prepared can help your presentation become more engaging and professional. Review your presentation to catch any errors, and rehearse how you will present it. Don't just read from the slides, but use them to highlight your main points. Think about the type of equipment that will be available for your presentation. If you will be using a projector or a network connection, ensure they are set up and connected before your presentation begins. If you are presenting with notes, make sure they are only visible to you. If the monitor settings have a mirroring option, you may need to disable it. Challenge! Open our example file. Make sure you're signed in to Google, then click File > Make a copy. Play your slideshow using presenter view if it's available. If not, try presenting from the beginning. Use different methods to move forward and backward between the slides. For example, try using the spacebar to move forward and the left arrow to move back to the previous slide. Lesson 14: Editing Master Slides and Layouts Editing master slides and layouts You may have noticed that when you select a different theme in Google Slides, it rearranges the text on your slides and adds shapes to the background. This is because each theme has built-in slide layouts and background graphics. You can edit these layouts with a feature called the master template editor. Once you learn how to use the editor, you'll be able to customize your entire slide show with just a few clicks. Watch the video below to learn how to edit master slides and layouts: Using the master template editor The master template editor in Google Slides allows you to quickly modify the slides and slide layouts in your presentation. From there, you can edit the master slide, which will affect every slide in the presentation. You can also modify individual slide layouts, which will change any slides using those layouts. Here are some common uses for the master template editor. Modify backgrounds: The master template editor makes it easy to customize the background for all of your slides at the same time. For example, you could add a watermark or logo to each slide in your presentation, or you could modify the background graphics of an existing theme. Rearrange placeholders: If you find that you often rearrange the placeholders on each slide, you can save time by rearranging them in the master template editor instead. When you adjust one of the layouts in the master template editor, all of the slides with that layout will change. Customize text formatting: Instead of changing the text color on each slide individually, you could use the master template editor to change the text color on all slides at once. Create unique slide layouts: If you want to create a presentation that looks different from default Google Slides themes, you could use the master template editor to create your own layouts. Custom layouts can include your own background graphics and placeholders. Customizing the master slide If you want to change something on all slides of your presentation, you can edit the master slide. In our example, we'll change the title font color. Optional: Click Theme and select a theme that is similar to the design you want. In our example, we'll select the Coral theme. Open the Slide menu, then select Edit master. The presentation will switch to the master template editor. Be sure to select the master slide at the top; otherwise, one of the layouts will be selected by default. Make the desired changes to the master slide. In our example, we'll change the font color by clicking the font color command and selecting the edit theme colors icon. The Theme colors pane appears. For this example, we'll click the drop-down arrow to select Text and background 1. Then, we'll select blue for the Text and background 1. Then, close out of the Theme colors pane by clicking the X in the top-right corner. When you're finished, close the master template editor by clicking the X at the top-right of the pane. The change will appear on all slides of the presentation. Customizing slide layouts You can use the master template editor to modify any slide layout in your presentation. It's easy to make small tweaks like adjusting background graphics and more significant changes like rearranging or deleting placeholders. Unlike the master slide, changes to a slide layout will only be applied to slides using that layout in your presentation. Open the master template editor. When it opens, the layout of the currently selected slide will be displayed by default. Locate and select the desired layout in the left navigation pane. When you select a layout, you can see how many slides are currently using that layout in the presentation. Add, move, modify, or delete any objects as desired. In our example, we'll resize the boxes and change their fill color to blue. When you're finished, close the master template editor by clicking the X at the top-right of the pane. The change will appear on all slides using that layout. Unlike PowerPoint, pictures aren’t contained in placeholders, so they don’t move when you change the theme. Should you edit all of the layouts? The theme may contain layouts that aren’t used by your presentation. It’s up to you whether you edit all of them or just some of them. You may want to just focus on the layouts that are currently used by your presentation. On the other hand, if you plan to add more slides or use your theme in other presentations, you may want to edit all layouts to make sure the design is consistent. Using your theme in other presentations Once you've customized the master slide and layouts of your current presentation, you can import those same designs into a new presentation as a theme. Open the presentation into which you want to import your customized theme. Open the Themes pane, then click the Import theme command at the bottom. Select the customized presentation. Select the theme. Then, click the Import theme button. The theme will be applied to the current presentation. Challenge! Open our example file. Make sure you're signed in to Google, then click File > Make a copy. Open the master template editor and make sure to select the master slide at the top. Change the Text and background 1 to blue from the Theme colors pane. Change the master title font to Times New Roman. Change the font color of the rest of the text to black. Select the first layout slide (Title slide) in the master editor. Change the alignment of the master title and the master subtitle to left align. Drag the title and subtitle so they are near the top-left of the slide. Add a short horizontal line below the subtitle. Change the line color to yellow and the line weight to 4 pt. Close the master slide. When you're finished, the first slide in your presentation should look something like this: Lesson 15: Inserting and Editing Diagrams Inserting and editing diagrams Google Slides has a variety of premade diagrams that are easy to insert into your presentation. There are a lot of fully editable presets to choose from, and they can be used to display all kinds of information. Watch the video below to learn how to insert and edit diagrams. To insert a diagram: Go to Insert, then Diagram. A new pane opens with several different types of diagrams that you can choose from. Choose the style that best visualizes what you are trying to communicate. In our example, we are going to click Hierarchy. At the top, you can change the color and the number of levels in the diagram. Click a diagram to add it to your slide. Editing diagrams We know that learning how to edit diagrams in Google Slides can be tricky. In this lesson, we try to show you every step of the process. If you have trouble following along with our example, you can try watching the video at the top of the page. Sometimes it's helpful to see the process in action. We hope that by the end of this lesson you'll know the basics of how to select, move, and edit different parts of the diagram. After you complete the lesson, we encourage you to continue practicing on your own. Play with your diagrams and see what you can create! To move the diagram: Select the whole diagram by clicking an empty spot on the slide and dragging a box around all of the elements in the diagram. Click and drag one of the selected elements to move the whole diagram. To change the border color: With the whole diagram still selected, click Border color and choose the color that you want. Note that this changes the color of the borders and of the lines connecting the boxes, but not of the text. To change the text color: To be able to change the text color, you need to select just the text boxes and not any of the connecting lines. Start by clicking an empty spot on the slide to deselect everything. Hold down the Shift key and click each text box. Holding the Shift key and clicking each item individually makes it easier to only select exactly what you want. With just the text boxes selected, you can now click Text color and choose the color that you want. To edit the content of the diagram: Make sure that nothing is selected, then click the text that you want to edit. The insertion point appears, and you can make your edits. When you're done, click an empty area to deselect the text box. To rearrange the diagram: In our example, we need to make a structural change to the diagram. Jim Franks should actually be underneath Luiz Ramirez. To move a box, click and drag it to where you want it. Click on the line to select it. Handles will appear at either end. Click and drag the handle that you want to move. As you move over a box, anchor points appear. Hover over an anchor point and release the mouse to connect the boxes. To add a box to the diagram: You can use the drawing tools to create a new box, but it's usually easier to copy an existing box. Copying an existing box ensures that the formatting will be consistent. Click and drag to draw a selection box around a box and its connecting line. Right-click on one of the selected elements and choose Copy. Right-click anywhere on the slide and choose Paste. Click and drag the new box to move it. Once you've moved the box to where you want it, hold down the Shift key and click the box. This will deselect the box, leaving just the line selected. Click and drag the floating handle. Move it to an anchor point on another box. Once everything is connected, you can reposition the elements as needed. As with most skills, learning to edit diagrams can be frustrating, but with some practice, you'll be able to create diagrams that look great and communicate what they're supposed to. Lesson 16: Audience Q&A Audience Q&A When you give a presentation, you want your audience to be engaged, and one way to increase engagement is to invite the audience to participate using the Audience Q&A (question and answer) tool. Watch the video below to learn how to accept and share audience questions. Opening a question and answer session The Q&A tool is opened from within Presenter view. Click the drop-down arrow next to Present and choose Presenter view from the menu. Presenter view opens the presentation like normal, but it also opens a separate window to help guide you during your presentation. In the separate window, click the Audience Tools tab. Then click Start new. The Q&A session is now open. How it works for the audience When a Q&A session is open, a large notification containing a URL appears above the presentation. Audience members can type the URL into the address bar of their web browser. A webpage opens, and audience members can see questions that have already been submitted. If they're signed into their Google account, they can even vote on which questions they most want answered. Participants can tap the text box to type their own questions. If they are signed in, their name will appear alongside their question unless they choose to ask the question anonymously. They submit their question by tapping Submit. Previewing and presenting questions In the presenter view, you can see every question as it is submitted. To show a question to the audience, click Present. The audience will see the question instead of the current slide. To return to the presentation, click Hide. If you ever want to stop accepting questions, just click the toggle near the top. Audience members won't be able to submit any questions while Accepting questions is turned off. Question and answer history Another useful feature of Audience Q&A is that you can review the questions even after the presentation is finished. To see past questions, go to Tools > Q&A history. Q&A history lets you review questions that were asked during each session, which can provide helpful feedback about how to improve your presentation in the future. Lesson 17: Linking Between Slides Linking between slides In Google Slides, you can easily turn any text or object into a link, and linking between slides is a powerful feature with lots of possibilities. Watch the video below to learn how to use this feature to create an interactive presentation. Creating an interactive presentation In this lesson, you are going to learn how to create an interactive presentation about the solar system. Along the way, you will learn how to turn text into links, how to turn part of your slide into a link, how to edit links, and more. Open our example file if you'd like to work along with the lesson. Make sure you're signed in to Google, then click File > Make a copy. You can view the finished product to see what the presentation will look like when we're done. Turning text into a link to another slide To build our interactive presentation, we will begin by creating a link from the Jupiter slide back to the home slide. Select the text that you want to turn into a link. Right-click and choose Link. You can also use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+K or Command+K if you're using a Mac. A dialog box will open. If you want to link to an external website, you can add a URL, but to link to another slide within your presentation, click Slides in this presentation. Choose the slide that you want the text to link to. In our example, we'll select First Slide. Click Apply. Your text is now a link. Notice that the text formatting has changed. You can use the toolbar to change it back if you want, but this formatting is helpful because it lets people know that the text is clickable. Selecting a linked object Whenever you select an object that has a link, a dialog box will appear. From this dialog, you can click the remove link icon, click the pencil icon to edit the link, click the copy icon, or click the name to go to the link. Turning part of your slide into a link Now, we are going to turn Jupiter into a link that takes users to the Jupiter slide. This is going to be a little tricky because this entire slide is a single image, which means that you can't actually select the planet. Fortunately, there is a workaround. We are going to create a transparent shape and place it over Jupiter. Then, we will add a link to that shape. This technique allows you to turn any part of your slide into a link. Click the Shape command, hover over Shapes, and choose the circle. Click and drag to draw the shape. Move and resize the circle as needed so that it lines up with Jupiter. On the toolbar, click the Fill color command then choose Transparent. On the toolbar, click the Border color command then choose Transparent. Now, you have an invisible object on top of Jupiter. With the object selected, add a link using the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+K or Command+K. In the dialog box, click the Slides in this presentation drop-down menu and choose the Jupiter slide. Click Apply. Copying, pasting, and editing links Creating a new transparent shape for every planet would take a long time. It's much quicker to copy and paste your existing shapes. Select the transparent shape. Right-click and choose copy. Right-click again and choose paste. To edit the link, click the pencil icon. Alternatively, you can right-click and choose link just like we did before. Click the Slides in this presentation drop-down menu and choose the correct slide. Click Apply. Move and resize the shape so that it lines up with another planet. Testing your links It's important to test your links before sharing your presentation. Click Present to start the presentation. The cursor changes when you hover over part of the slide that has a link. Click a link to go to a slide. It's a good idea to test every link in your Google Slides presentation to make sure that it leads to the correct slide. Once you learn how to link between slides, there are nearly endless possibilities. Lesson 18: Inserting and Editing Videos Inserting and Editing Videos Inserting a video into Google Slides is a great way to engage your audience, and it is simple to add them to any presentation. Watch the video below to learn how to insert and edit videos. To insert videos from YouTube: First, go to the slide where you want to insert the video. Looking at the top toolbar, go to Insert, then click Video from the drop-down menu. A window pops up that gives you options to insert a video. If you already have a YouTube URL, the By URL option lets you paste it to insert that specific video. Search allows you to find a video from YouTube. Start by typing what you are looking for into the search bar then press Enter. Click the video that you want to add, then click the Select button. The video appears on the slide. To insert videos from your hard drive: You’ll first need to open your Google Drive. Locate the file on your computer. Then, simply click, drag, and drop it into the Google Drive window. The video will upload into your Google Drive. Now that the file is uploaded to your Google Drive, all you have to do is go to Insert, then click Video from the drop-down menu. Select the Google Drive option. You can access your file there. To resize videos: By default, videos will only cover a small part of the slide. We're going to resize and move the video so it fills the slide. First, we'll zoom out. Click the drop-down arrow next to the magnifying glass. Select Zoom out from the list. Click and drag the video where you want it to go. We'll align it with the left edge of the slide. Then, use the corner handles to resize the video. Click and drag the video using the alignment lines as a guide. Repeat steps 4 and 5 until the video looks the way you want it on the slide. To change the format options: Google Slides allows you to make various adjustments to the video playback options using the Format options pane on the right side of the screen. If it's not visible, you can open it by selecting the video then clicking the Format options button on the toolbar. With the Format options pane open, navigate to Video playback. If you only want a portion of the video, you can change the Start at and End at times. In presentation mode, the video will play according to the times that you set. Within the Format options pane, click the Autoplay when presenting checkbox to enable autoplay. The video will automatically play when the presentation goes to that slide. If you want to talk over the video, click the Mute audio checkbox to silence the sound. The video will not have sound in presentation mode. To present: Go to the drop-down arrow next to Present. Select Present from beginning. Click the right arrow key on your keyboard to go forward in the presentation. As you can see, the video plays automatically when you get to that particular slide, and it starts at the time that was set in the Format options pane. To pause the video, click the mouse. To exit the presentation, press the Esc key on your keyboard. Inserting a video is a great way to explain or add relevant information within your Google Slides presentation. Audience members will enjoy seeing your topic presented in a unique way. Lesson 19: Adding and Editing Free Templates Adding and Editing Free Templates How do you make a presentation polished? Consider adding a template! There are many websites that have free Google Slides templates for people to use. In this video, we'll focus on Slidesgo. Watch the video below to learn how to add and edit free templates. Selecting a free template Starting on Slidesgo.com, you can search for templates using the Search bar or you can use the toolbar, which lets you search by color, style, industry, and other options. Looking at Popular themes, let’s click See more. You will see a variety of templates; however, you do not want to choose a template that requires you to make drastic changes. When you find one that you like, click it. I'll choose the Stay Creative template. This window will let you preview the presentation. You can click the different colors to see the background color options. Select a background color that makes the text easy to read. You can use the arrow keys to flip through the presentation to see features and layouts. If you like the template, click Use a Google Slides Theme. Click the Make a copy button. The presentation is saved to your Google Drive. Using the features of the template Once you've opened the template, you can begin adding your own text to customize it. Keep in mind, the features may vary depending on the template that you have chosen. The Google Slides presentation with your chosen template opens up. You can click the name at the top to rename the presentation. The second slide tells you how to use the features of this template. After you understand the features and finish editing your presentation, you can delete this slide. You can edit the presentation to include the information that you want, similar to how you would edit any other Google Slides presentation. Editing master slides and layouts With many templates, you can click the drop-down arrow next to the plus sign (+) to access the built-in layouts. However, you can also customize these layouts if needed. In the toolbar, click Slide, then select Edit Master. Here you can edit individual layouts, but keep in mind that any changes made here apply to all slides with that layout. For example, if you find yourself changing the font size often, you could change the font within that slide layout. To close out of this window, click the X. Duplicating slides Making a copy of a slide is super useful if you want to reuse the layout on another slide. In the Slide Navigation pane, right-click the slide you want. Then, select Duplicate Slide from the menu. The duplicate will appear in the Slide Navigation pane. Looking at alternative and editable resources Some templates come with alternative resources to give you options that match the design. You can choose any of these illustrations by copy and pasting them to another slide. Near the bottom of the Slide Navigation pane, you may find editable resources for your slides. Here you can see graphics, maps, tables, and more. Unlike the alternative resources, these graphics are not part of the theme; therefore, you may have to change their color or resize them to make them fit the theme better. Understanding the Instructions for use Before the editable resources, you will find the Instructions for use slide. It's up to you to read them carefully and understand how to keep your presentation in compliance with Slidesgo’s terms & conditions. After you’ve read the Instructions for use slide, you can delete this slide and any other slide with graphics that you do not need, but don’t delete the Thanks slide. The Thanks slide gives credit to Slidesgo, which is required by their terms and conditions. Free Google Slides templates help you to have a consistent designed theme throughout your presentation. With plenty of free template websites to choose from, you can assemble a presentation for any occasion. Lesson 20: Installing Add-ons Installing add-ons Google Slides has many integral features, but you may find that you need something particular that is not built-in. Slides add-ons are specific tools made by third parties. This means that they are not created by Google itself. You can install them to have extra features within your Google Slides presentations. In this lesson, we'll install the Pear Deck add-on. Watch the video below to learn how to install add-ons. Understanding add-ons Some add-ons have features that are only available with premium subscriptions. You can sign up for them by creating an account with the add-on. In order to start or present with Pear Deck in particular, you will have to create an account. Many add-ons may redirect you to their website and require that you make an account in order to use it. It is up to you to decide what type of subscription that you want. For Pear Deck, the features that have a gold star are premium features. To use these starred features, you will need to pay for a subscription as an individual or see if your school has a paid subscription. Keep in mind most add-ons will have access to all of your documents within your Google Account. If at any point you are wary of what it could access, do not install it. Searching and installing add-ons To get started, let’s go to Add-ons on the toolbar. Then, select Get add-ons. Select the add-on that you would like to learn more about. In our example, we'll take a look at Pear Deck for Google Slides. When looking at add-ons, it is important to check if it has a good rating, substantial number of users, and is compatible with the Google app that you want to use. You should use your best judgement in order to see if you can trust it to access various aspects of your Google account. To get the add-on, click Install. This dialog box will ask you if you want to begin the installation process. By clicking Continue, you are agreeing that you understand the terms of use of the add-on. Next, you’ll select the Google account that you want to use with it. You may be wondering what the add-on will access in regards to your Google account. Most of them will have this type of dialog box to let you know. Oftentimes, add-ons will have access to all of your documents. Click Allow if you still trust it after taking the time to inform yourself. Continue working through the steps in the dialog box. Once installed, most add-ons show up as panels on the right side of the screen. Looking at Pear Deck's features What’s unique about Pear Deck is that it has a Template Library for educators to build their class presentations. Within the Template Library, you'll find categorized slide templates. Let's click on Beginning of Lesson. We want a text slide that tells students what they need for materials and has them answer a question about their homework. Let's select the Text Slide. It may take a few seconds for the template to show up. You can edit the slide to include the information that you need. Uninstalling add-ons To remove an add-on from your Google Account, click Add-ons. Then, select Manage add-ons. You can uninstall it by clicking on the three dots and selecting Uninstall. There are many to choose from, but it is up to you to determine if you trust the add-on and if you find its features beneficial. Lesson 21: Printing and Creating PDF Files Printing and creating PDF files If you want to create a handout of a Google Slides presentation, you can either print a hard copy or export a PDF. In this lesson, we will explore both options. Watch the video below to learn how to print and create PDF files. Making selections within print settings and preview Print settings and preview allows you to select options to create a handout. If you only want one slide per page, you have a choice of with notes or without notes. First, go to File, then select Print settings and preview. The default is to have each slide be one page. To change this, open the drop-down menu. If you want to include the presentation notes, you can pick the option 1 slide with notes. Looking at alternative handout options Within Print settings and preview, you will see that you have alternative handout options that are more than one slide per page. By opening the drop-down menu, you'll be able to view and choose the option you'd like for your handout. We'll show some of the possibilities below. Handout - 3 slides per page: This option provides a note-taking column within the handout, which could help those attending a training or lecture. Handout - 9 slides per page: This may be hard to read as a handout for the audience, but could be useful to presenters to see an overview of their presentation. Handout - 4 slides per page: This one helps to consolidate the number of slides to fewer pages and is easier to read. Selecting page orientation and hiding the background Depending on the handout option chosen in Print settings and preview, you can see if changing the page orientation makes the slides more legible. Looking at the toolbar, open the drop-down menu. You can select either Portrait or Landscape mode. You may notice Hide background on the toolbar. It is a feature that helps to decrease the amount of ink used to print a handout. When selected, it hides the theme background from the printed slides, but you can still see images as well as text with darker font colors. One disadvantage is that a presentation with lighter font colors will have unreadable text since the background is now white. Printing and creating PDFs With Print settings and preview open, let’s click Print. The options that you have selected will show up on the preview screen. Click the drop-down arrow to pick an option from Destination. You can choose a printer, save as PDF to your computer or save as a PDF to your Google Drive. Click More settings. There you will see a Pages per sheet option. We don't necessarily recommend adding more pages per sheet. Instead, it’s better to use the slides per page option that we introduced earlier because it is specifically designed for creating handouts. For a quicker way to save a PDF without opening the print dialog box, you can select Download as PDF from the toolbar of the print settings and preview screen. Your presentation will appear as a local file within the downloads folder on your computer. Showing multiple ways to print There are three ways to print if you do not need specialized options. There is an icon on the toolbar that you can click to print. You can use the keyboard shortcut of Ctrl+P or Command+P if you're on a Mac. Lastly, you can go to File, then select Print. Printing a Google Slides presentation is easy with the options and features available to you. Whether you want to have a hard copy or create a PDF, Google Slides has both options for you to use. Lesson 22: Skipping Slides Skipping slides It is your turn to present, but the person before you went over their time. Now, you have to cut out information or forgo your question and answer time. Which would you choose? Google Slides has the skip slide tool to help you quickly hide slides from your presentation. Watch the video below to learn how to skip slides. To skip a slide: Select a slide that you want to skip. Right-click the slide and select Skip slide. An eye icon appears telling you that this slide will be hidden from your presentation. You can select as many slides as you want to skip using the right-click method. If you’d rather keep the slide visible, right-click it and select Skip slide to uncheck it. To see changes to the presentation: Click the drop-down arrow next to Present. Then, select Present from beginning. As you click through the presentation, you'll see that the slide was skipped. To exit out of presentation mode, press the Esc key on your keyboard. To print a handout: After you've skipped the slide(s), let's print a handout to have as an overview. Go to File. Then, select Print settings and preview. You can choose any handout option from the drop-down menu. In this example, we'll choose Handout - 9 slides per page. At the moment, the handout will include the skipped slides. Click on Include skipped slides. The slide that we skipped is no longer part of the handout. To print, click the printer icon on the toolbar. If you are short on time, have unnecessary information, or no longer have time for a Q&A session, the skip slide feature can help you modify your presentation. Lesson 23: Voice Type Speaker Notes Voice type speaker notes Preparing for a presentation without an adequate amount of time to do so is stressful. Voice type speaker notes is a feature of Google Slides presentations that can quickly record and type your thoughts underneath each slide. If you are using a computer or a smartphone, adding speaker notes looks a little different. On a computer, the voice typing feature only works if you are using Chrome as your web browser. Later in this lesson, we’ll take a look at the mobile process. Watch the video below to learn how to use the voice type speaker notes feature. Voice typing using a computer For the voice typing feature to work, you will need to use Chrome as your web browser. To begin, select the slide from the Slides navigation pane to add speaker notes. Click Tools, then select Voice type speaker notes. Click the drop-down arrow above the microphone icon to change the language. Click the microphone icon to turn it on. If you haven’t already allowed Google to use your microphone, you may see a pop-up asking for access. Click Allow. When speaking into the microphone, keep in mind that you have to say the punctuation out loud. For example: "With the help of event planners comma people can celebrate various milestones in their lives period." What you say into the microphone will show up underneath the slide as speaker notes. When you are done speaking, click the microphone icon to turn it off. You may notice that the voice typing feature may not capture every word accurately. You can edit the text as you normally would or you can right-click the underlined words to see suggested changes. Voice typing using a smartphone The process is a little different on a smartphone since voice type speaker notes is not available on mobile yet. There is an alternative: You can either type information or use your phone's built-in voice typing feature. In order to follow along, you will need to download the Google Slides app. Click the three dots in the upper-right corner. Tap the switch next to Speaker notes to display speaker notes. Select a slide from the slides navigation pane to add speaker notes. Then, tap the Speaker Notes text box below the slide. As mentioned previously, voice typing can only be done using your phone or tablet's built-in voice typing feature. On an iPhone, you can access this feature by tapping the microphone icon on the keyboard. Correcting a lot of misspelled words or odd phrases after recording can be cumbersome on a tablet or mobile device. You may want to re-record if there are many mistakes. Whether you use speaker notes to practice what you are going to say or as a reference, Google Slides voice type speaker notes feature can quickly capture your thoughts. Lesson 24: Arranging Objects Arranging objects You have added objects to your slides presentation, but now it looks disorganized and jumbled. How can you arrange the objects to make it look more polished? Google Slides has tools to help you put together your slides with everything in its place. Watch the video below to learn how to arrange objects on your slides. We'll show how to use these tools within our example file. You can open it to work along with the lesson. Once you're signed in to Google, go to File > Make a copy to begin. Distributing and aligning objects When objects overlap or are too far apart, the Distribute and Align tools can help you organize your slides. To get started, select a slide. Press and hold the Shift key, then click each object to select them. Click Arrange, then hover over Distribute. Now, looking at the options you can choose either Horizontally or Vertically. For this example, we'll select Horizontally. With all of the objects selected, let's align them. Click Arrange, then hover over Align. You can choose from a list of options here. We'll select Bottom for our example. By using the Distribute and Align tools, the objects will no longer overlap, have equal distance between them, and line up with one another as seen below. Adding a shape Adding shapes can add another layer to the slide. For our example, we'll add a rectangle behind the photos to make a background. First, go to Insert > Shape, then hover over Shapes, then select the Rectangle. Draw the rectangle around the photos. The rectangle is currently the default color: gray. Let's change its color to fit the theme. Start by clicking the Fill color icon. Then, select a color under Theme. The rectangle will change from the default color to the color you selected. Putting objects in order Putting objects in order means arranging the layers on the slide. Particular to our example, we need to move the rectangle back to see the photos. Go to Arrange > Order. With the options available within order, you can decide what you want in the background and at the forefront. Let’s see if Send Backward would help. The rectangle moved behind only one of the photos, which is not exactly what we want. Let’s try a different option: we’ll choose Send to Back. Now, the rectangle is behind all of the photos. Grouping objects In order to move the objects without having to make adjustments every time, you'll need to group them. Make sure the photos and the rectangle are selected by holding down the Shift key on your keyboard and clicking each one. With the objects selected, go to Arrange > Group. You can move and resize them as a group. Deleting and rotating images When there are too many objects on a slide, you may want to delete an object to have more blank space. Also, sometimes when you insert a photo, it may need to be rotated. We'll show you how to accomplish this using our example. On this slide, you see too many objects. To delete an object, click it and press delete on your keyboard. The photo on the right needs to be rotated. With the photo selected, go to Arrange > Rotate > Rotate clockwise 90°. Now using the arrangement methods shown before, you can clean up the slide using the tools found in the Arrange drop-down menu as well as use the sizing handles. To check your presentation, our final version can be used as a reference. As you arrange objects on your slides, you’ll notice that your presentation is looking more organized. Having a polished Google Slides presentation with everything in its place helps the audience focus on the information presented instead of slides that distract from your message. Lesson 25: Inserting Charts from Google Sheets Inserting charts from Google Sheets Adding charts to your presentation allows you to communicate data in a visually compelling way. Google Slides can link spreadsheets made in Google Sheets to help you update your charts before you present. In this lesson, you'll learn how to import a chart as well as create one from scratch. Watch the video below to learn how to insert charts from Google Sheets. Importing a chart If you previously created a chart in Google Sheets, you can import it by linking your presentation to the spreadsheet. First, go to Insert, then hover over Chart. If you instead want to import a chart that you have previously made in Google Sheets, click From Sheets. A dialog box opens with all of your spreadsheets. Choose the one that has the chart you want, then click Select. In the next dialog box, select the chart that you want to import, then make sure that Link to spreadsheet is checked. This is important! If you uncheck this option, you won’t be able to edit your chart after you import it. When you’re ready, click Import. The chart is added to your slide. If you want to create a chart from scratch, you can choose from the following chart types. Resizing and editing a chart When you add a chart to a slide, you may need to resize it to fit the slide better. Also, if you edit the chart or data, keep in mind you'll need to update it from within your Slides presentation. We'll talk more about how to update it below. You can resize it by clicking and dragging the sizing handles. Use one of the handles in the corner to prevent the chart from stretching out of proportion. You can also click and drag the chart to reposition it. In order to edit the chart, you have to open it in Google Sheets. Click the drop-down arrow in the top-right corner, and choose Open source. It may take a second or two, but the Google Sheet will open, and you can make your edits. To make formatting changes to the chart, right-click and choose Chart style. In the pane that opens, you can control virtually every aspect of the chart’s appearance. In this example, we'll delete the chart title because the slide already has a title. Also, there is a typo in this example. Let's change 250 to 25 for 2019 Digital Deluxe. Let's go back to the tab with our Google Slides presentation. There should now be an update button in the top-right corner of the chart. If the update button isn’t there, try refreshing the webpage. To update your chart, simply click Update. Any changes that you made in Google Sheets are now reflected in your presentation. Creating a chart If you do not have a chart already made, you can create one from scratch. Once you've created a chart, you can edit the data and chart styling just as you would any other chart in Google Sheets. First, go to Insert > Chart. Then, choose the style that you want. A chart will be inse rted with default styling and sample data. Once again, you can only edit the chart from within Google Sheets, so click the drop-down arrow, and choose Open source. The Google Sheet that opens was automatically created when you inserted the chart. Just make sure you remember to update the chart in your presentation after you finish making your changes. Inserting a chart from Google Sheets to your Google Slides can help you have visual data representations. By following this lesson, you will have charts that are ready for when you present. Lesson 26: Google Slides Quiz Quiz Question 1 of 30 Google Slides is most similar to which of the following programs? Microsoft PowerPoint Microsoft Project Adobe Photoshop Microsoft Word Back to Tutorial

keyboard_arrow_up ABOUT US Who We Are Who Uses Us + Our Partners EDUCATORS' RESOURCES Teacher Guides Resources and Tools HELP AND SUPPORT FAQ Terms of Service Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Contact Us My Account
[chatsimple](https://www.chatsimple.ai/?utm_source=widget&utm_medium=referral)
Scraping page...
